#summary This guide will help you to set up scalr nameservers

= Configuring nameservers for use in Scalr =


1. You need at least one machine with Bind9 installed. You can even use EC2 instance for this, but old-fashion physical box is preferred. Let's call it nameserver box.

2. Create a system user on your nameserver box. His home directory must be a folder where bind stores zone files (/var/named on most linux distros). He also needs a valid shell, because scalr will log in remotely under this user via SSH.
`# useradd -d /var/named -s /bin/sh named`

3. Assign him a password (that would be a password from your previous question).
`# passwd named`

4. Chown zones directory and named.conf to named (just in case) 
# chown named:named /etc/named.conf && chown named:named /var/named

5. Try to connect to nameserver box with user named over SSH and issue this commands (to check either he has sufficient permissions to change files and execute rndc):
`# touch /var/named && touch /etc/named.conf && /usr/sbin/rndc info`

6. Say, your nameserver box has IP 777.777.777.777 assigned. Create ns1.yourscalrhost.com (On whatever nameservers that are serving yourscalrhost.com) and point it to 777.777.777.777

7. Go to "scalr -> Settings -> Nameservers -> Add new" and add all info about your nameservers host.
Root user will be "named", Root password will be named's password.

8. Repeat ##1-7 for each nameserver box you wish to add.
Try to create an application and see if it resolves ok.
Dig appdomain.com @ns1.yourscalrhost.com

You can use root system user instead of named. Then you unlikely face any problems with file permissions, but obviously it is a bit less secure.