#summary Scalr v1 System Requirements

= Scalr v1 System Requirements =


To quickly check either your server meets EPP-DRS system requirements, use testenvironment.php script from app/www folder.
Simply upload php file on your host and open it in browser. It should find most of major issues.

Scalr requires a webserver and can run on any posix-compatible (Linux, BSD etc.) operating system, as long as the following requirements are met:
  * PHP 5.2.0 or higher (5.2.6 preferred), 
  * MySQL 5.0 or higher (MySQL 5.1 or higher preferred)


== Required PHP configuration options ==
  * safe_mode must be set to Off 
  * register_globals must be Off

== Required PHP extensions ==
  * [http://php.net/mysqli mysqli]
  * [http://php.net/curl cURL]
  * [http://php.net/sockets Sockets (--enable-sockets) with SSL support (--with-openssl)]
  * [http://php.net/gettext GetText]
  * [http://php.net/SimpleXML SimpleXML]
  * [http://php.net/mcrypt mcrypt]
  * [http://php.net/mhash mhash]
  * [http://php.net/pcntl pcntl]
  * [http://php.net/posix posix]
  * [http://php.net/ssh2 ssh2]
  * [http://php.net/dom DOM]


== Installation ==

Copy contents of app folder on your webserver.
Only app/www folder must be readable by webserver, all other folders must be underneath web root.

=== Set folders permissions ===
Set permissions on the following folders (and subfolders) and files to 777 (world-writable):
* cache
* cron/cron.pid
* etc/.passwd
* etc/clients_keys


=== Create and configure database ===

  # Create new MySQL database 
  # Import database dump from sql/database.sql file.
  # Edit database connection details in etc/config.ini file.


=== Set Cron jobs ===

For system to work properly, it needs to run a few tasks periodicaly.
Scalr has a single cron/cron.php file that must be executed with various command-line switches.
The following recurring tasks must be sheduled:

=== Configure logging ===
Edit [http://logging.apache.org/log4php/ log4php] config in _etc/log4php.xml_