#summary Scalr v1 Roadmap.
#labels Featured,Roadmap

_This page lists features that Scalr team is currently working on and planning to release soon.
It should not be considered "final" and can be (and will be) re-arranged along the way._
<br />
= Future Releases = 

== Scalarizr == 


== Optimization of MySQL Role == 
Making snapshot and promoting new master takes a long time. We have a few ideas about how to make this process faster.

== New extJS-based interface ==
With one-click sorting and other cool goodies. 

== yourfarm.scalr.ws ==
Whenever you create a farm, yourfarm.scalr.ws is created for you. No need to change nameservers, just add CNAME on your current ones. Useful for test farms.

== Misc ==
  * Bye SNMP+REST, hello messaging (ActiveMQ).
  * SSH is no more required on instances
  * Base Windows Role.
  * Diff view  for scripts

<br>
= <strike>February 2009</strike> =

== <strike>EBS for MySQL role</strike> ==

<strike>A single EBS volume is used as datadir on master and to deliver latest data to slaves (via snapshots).</strike>

== <strike>Elastic IPs re-assigning to a same instance within a role</strike> ==
<strike>If you enable elastic IPs inside a role settings, IP #1 always gets attached to an instance that is launched 1st, Volume 2 to a second one and so on. Association persists between farm restarts. 
In MySQL role, 1st IP always gets attached to MySQL master.
</strike>
== <strike>Cloudfront support</strike> == 
<strike>Select a bucket, select Application, enter subdomain name, done.</strike>

== <strike>Misc</strike> ==
<strike>* New Scripting events:  beforeHostTerminate, beforeInstanceLaunch, OnEBSVolumeMounted</strike>

<br />
= <strike>January 2009</strike> = 

== <strike>EBS Arrays</strike> ==
<strike>Create a storage device (up to 10 TB for now), attach it to an instance. 
Enter the desired size and Scalr will do the rest - create volumes, join them into a single device, create filesystem and mount it on your instance.</strike>

== <strike>Scripts execution order</strike> ==
<strike>If you have multiple scripts assigned on a single event, you can select an order in which they will be executed.</strike>

== <strike>Automatic EBS snapshots</strike> ==
<strike>Set how frequently Scalr will make snapshots of your volumes. 
Auto-EBS, manual EBS, EBS arrays - all support this feature.</strike>

== <strike>Support for Europe locations</strike> ==
<strike>Select what region your farm will run in.</strike>

== <strike>EBS volumes re-attaching to a same instance within a role.</strike> == 
<strike>If you enable EBS inside a role settings, Volume #1 always gets attached to an instance that is launched 1st, Volume 2 to a second one and so on. Association persists between farm restarts.</strike>

==  <strike>Attach and mount EBS volume to a particular instance.</strike> ==
<strike>Set the size and push the button. Volumes always get attached and mounted whenever instance boots up.</strike>

<br />